.TH nscmake 1 "December 26, 2009" "version 20091226" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
.B nscmake 
\- for converting text (O)NScripter script file(s) to a packaged
script file ("nscript.dat" by default)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "nscmake" 
.RB "[" -o
.IR nsc_file "]"
.I in_file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool is used to compile one or more NScripter or ONScripter script files
(typically "0.txt") from plain SJIS text to a compiled nscript.dat file.

It can read either from one or more files or else from standard input,
and write either to a file or else to standard output.

As with the official NScripter toolchain, any '\\r' characters in the
input will be stripped.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-o " "nsc_file"
Specifies where to write the output.  If not provided, defaults to
"nscript.dat".  To write to standard output, specify - as the argument to
.BR -o .
.TP
.I in_file ...
One or more input files. - may be specified as the first file to read from
standard input; when reading from standard input, any additional files
on the command line will be ignored.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Generate nscript.dat (default output) from 0.txt:

.B nscmake
0.txt
.TP
Generate foo.dat from 0.txt and 1.txt:

.B nscmake -o
foo.dat 0.txt 1.txt
.TP
Generate nscript.dat from files in the range 00.txt to 99.txt (if UNIX-style command line):

.B nscmake
[0-9][0-9].txt
.TP
Reading from standard input:

.B nscmake 
- < 0.txt
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B nscmake
returns zero on success and a nonzero value if an error occurs.
.SH AUTHOR
"Uncle" Mion Sonozaki <UncleMion@gmail.com>

http://onscripter.denpa.mobi/
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nscdec (1)
